dir: add page (#6809)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/linux/dir.md

# dir

> > dir is equivalent to ls -C -b; that is, by default files are listed in columns, sorted vertically, and special characters are represented by backslash escape sequences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> List directory contents using one line per file.
```

> > Show the contents of the current directory; Works as "ls -C -b" in Linux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Works as `ls -C --escape`.
```

> > More information: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dir-command-in-linux-with-examples/.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> More information: <https://manned.org/dir>.
```

> - Example description:

Reviewer 2: Can we please follow the convention.
Please take a look at a few examples.

> - Example description:
> 
> dir -l --author 
> Displays author of all the files. -l is required to display the contents in the form of a list.

Reviewer: I think is better to split this in 2 examples:
```suggestion
- List files using long list format:

`dir -l`

- List files including the author (`-l` is required):

`dir -l --author`
```

> - Example description:
> 
>  dir -R 
> List subdirectories recursively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- List subdirectories recursively:

`dir --recursive`
```

# dir

> > Dir is equivalent to ls -C -b; that is, by default files are listed in columns, sorted vertically, and special characters are represented by backslash escape sequences.

Reviewer: Perhaps this better
```suggestion
> List directory contents using one line per file, special characters are represented by backslash escape sequences.
> Works as `ls -C --escape`.
```

> More information: <https://manned.org/dir>.

> - Displays all the hidden files along with two files denoted by "." and "..":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- List all files, including hidden files:
```

> `dir -a`

Reviewer: We prefer long arguments if available
```suggestion
`dir --all`
```

> - Displays author of all the files. -l is required to display the contents in the form of a list:

Reviewer: I think you should add the `dir -l` example to explain that argument before `-author`
```suggestion
- List files including the author (`-l` is required):
```

`dir -l --author`

> - Ignore files describe by shell PATTERN while list the contents of a directory:

Reviewer: I this this is more clear
```suggestion
- List files excluding those that match a specified pattern:
```

> `dir --hide=PATTERN`

Reviewer: We use `snake_case` for placeholders
```suggestion
`dir --hide={{pattern}}`
```

> - List subdirectories recursively.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- List subdirectories recursively:
```

> `dir -R`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`dir --recursive`
```

> - Display the help options and exit:

Reviewer: We have this as a standard description
```suggestion
- Display help:
```

# dir

> dir is equivalent to ls -C -b; that is, by default files are listed in columns, sorted vertically, and special characters are represented by backslash escape sequences.
> More information: <https://manned.org/dir>

- Displays all the hidden files along with two files denoted by "." and "..":

`dir -a`

- Similar to -a option except that it does not display files that signals the current directory and previous directory:

`dir -A`

- Displays author of all the files. -l is required to display the contents in the form of a list:

`dir -l --author`

- Ignores listing of backed up files. These files end with a "~":

`dir -B`

- Ignores files described by shell PATTERN while listing the contents of a directory:

`dir --hide=PATTERN`

- Similar to the long listing that is -l option except that it lists numeric user and group IDs:

`dir -n`

- List files in reverse order while sorting:

`dir -r`

- List subdirectories recursively.:

`dir -R`

- Display the help options and exit:

`dir --help`

- Outputs version information and exit:

> `dir --version`

Reviewer: Sorry but the pages can have up to 8 examples. It's a strict rule.

> `dir --version`

Reviewer: Sorry but the pages can have up to 8 examples. It's a strict rule.
